# Memory Maps Project: Network Analysis Demo

## Premise for Memory Maps Project
Psychological well-being is multidimensional. There are many subprocesses and factors composing psychological well-being. Self-perception is a significant factor of well-being, however not everyone has a stable, positive sense of self. Research has addressed the negative outcomes that may emerge from negative and/or incoherent self-perception, from mood disorders and social anxiety to identity disturbances in dementia cases, but less research has explored the stability and coherence of self-perception on a conceptual basis.

Building from previous semantic network models from our lab, the current project aims to construct a model of self and self-coherence through subjective causal relationships between autobiographical memories in a process known as autobiographical reasoning. From these causal relationships between memories, we calculate scores of degree centrality to indicate the number of outgoing connections (outdegree centrality) and incoming connections (indegree centrality) between memories in the network using iGraph. We then use these degree centrality values to predict subjective ratings of memory qualities associated with self-understanding (how self-transformative a memory is, how personally important a memory is), as well as self-report measures of self-understanding (e.g., self-concept clarity and self-esteem scales).

## Data Collection
Forty-eight participants (33 female; _Avg. Age_ = 20, _St. Dev. Age_ = 2.8) were recruited from the UCR student body and greater Inland Empire/Los Angeles metropolitan area. Participants were recruited to complete a computerized autobiographical reasoning task in our lab. This study session took about 1 - 1.5 hours. These participants were compensated with course assignment credits and/or cash.   

The autobiographical reasoning task prompted participants to list a minimum of 24 memories from their life. If participants listed less than 24 memories after the initial prompt, they navigated through 3 memory nomination stages providing cues to assist participants’ memory retrieval. Cues to aid retrieval included life periods (child years, teen years, and adult years), memory-to-memory (new memories triggered by a listed memory), and common life events (like first kiss or meeting a new friend). 

Participants connected their listed memories to each other based on causal (_This memory caused..._) and counterfactual (_This memory would not have happened without..._) reasoning. Participants evaluated qualities of each provided memory including memory transformativeness, memory personal importance, and more.

## Network Analysis with iGraph
As mentioned, autobiographical memory networks are constructed from participants’ perceived causal and counterfactual connections between their memories. Participants also indicate the extent to which each memory was causal or counterfactual to its related memories on a continuous scale (0-100). This value represents distance between related memories. From here, we generate directed adjacency matrices of 1’s and 0’s representing participants’ perceived causal connections between memories through connected nodes (memories) and their vertices (distance between memories). A 1 indicates a connection between memories, and a 0 indicates no connection between memories. Additionally, we calculate degree centrality (outdegree and indegree) through eigenvector centrality scores corresponding to adjacency matrices. Much of our hypotheses seek to relate network topology (e.g., degree centrality) to measures of self-coherence, both in terms of memory ratings and individual differences measures.

## The Demo Script
This demo script will walk you through the basic procedures for creating an autobiographical memory network using iGraph. The data input is an abbreviated dataset (_N_ = 5) that has already been wrangled (i.e., cleaned and processed into a format that allows for analysis) and de-identified. After running this short script, you should have generated adjacency matrices for each participant and constructed networks for each matrix/participant. You should also have been able to visualize the networks by plotting adjacency matrices graphically. This script does not include network structural analysis or regressive models. 
